# Simulation Bullets
## Intro

## Context
The Matrix (idea on steroids). Says that we're all just brains in a vat, and that we're being a fed a simulated reality called the Matrix. In reality, the robots are in control, just using us as batteries. And these ideas all provide a good backbone to why futurists and physicists believe we're living in a simulation, but what's really driving them is science. You see, these thought experiments provide the possibility of living in a simulation, but they don't provide any evidence that we are living in a simulation. Collecting data from our universe, we've found many problems with the idea of scientific materialism, which states that the base unit of nature is matter. The quantum realm shakes everything up, making many sceintists turn to the belief that we live in a virtual world. So what are the problems?

## Problems
3. Next we have the Observer Effect, perhaps the most mind-blowing of the problems in modern physics. It's best explained by a thought experiment done by Erwin Schrodinger. He says imagine we have a cat and we put it inside a box with a bomb that has a 50% chance to go off and kill the cat, and a 50% chance to do nothing. We wait an hour and touch the lid of the box. We'd expect that before opening the box that the cat is either dead or alive, those two possibilities. But according to quantum mechanics, the cat isn't either or, it's actually both dead and alive at the same time. This fundamentally disturbed Schrodinger so much that he quit studying quantum physics and became a biologist. In the quantum realm, when you look at a subatomic element such as an electron, it appears as a particle, but when you're not looking at it, it appears as a wave. It exists in two states at once, like the cat. Basically, just looking at something/observing it, can change what an object looks like and behaves like at the quantum realm. Because everything in our universe is created from subatomic particles, we can change our reality and the world by just looking at something. This goes against everything when holding the belief that the world is a physical reality. But when we hold the belief that the world is a virtual one, it makes 100% sense. In a computer simulated environment, not everything is rendered at once, only the things which are observed are rendered. When we switch what we're looking at, the things that previously weren't visible become visible to make us believe that the simulated world is real. In reality, the environment in a computer simulation is in two states at all times, and only when we are observing something does our reality change. 
4. Now you might be thinking, sure all of this theory is great, but I want some hard evidence that we're living in a simulation, that everything is made out of 1's and 0's. Well James Gates, theoretical physicist and researcher on string theory has found computer code, strings of 1's and 0's, hidden inside equations in nature. Deep into quantum theory, we see evidence that bits of 1's and 0's are the backbone of everything. 

So we have four pieces of evidence which point to the belief that we're living in a simulation. And you guys might be saying, okay this kind of makes sense, but if we're living in a simulation, how did we get here? Who created the simulation, and how?

## How did we get here?
Th theory is that we created the simulation. Not us per say, but a future version of ourselves. The argument goes that right now our procesing power is doubling every 18 months, and our technology is getting exponentially better. This is documented in Moore's Law. 40 years ago we had pong, but now we have photo-realistic VR that some people find indistinguishable from reality. If this is the case, some estimate that we’ll have a computer powerful enough to simulate every brain on Earth in 50 years. But even if this process takes 5 million years, we’re heading on the path to creating this super computer. And once we have this power, we'll become posthuman (basically think of this as leveling up and having access to all of our science fiction dreams). We'll have the technological power to create an ancestor simulation, which is a fabricated virtual world of our ancestors. 

There are a lot of reasons why we'd create an ancestor simulation. One is that creating simulations could become an art form, such as literature. While the purpose of fiction is to transport us into another world through words, we could literally transport people into other worlds by creating simulations. Another reason is that we could learn from our past from these simulations. We could change the variables of the past, such as making it so Hitler won WWII, to see how our world would have changed if this happened. We'd learn a lot about ourselves. And lastly, if we could create a simulation, someone would for like a science project. Once we create this simulation, the people inside the simulation will be conscious because of how detailed the simulation will be, and once they develop the technological ability, will in the future be able to create their own simulations as well. The cycle will keep continuing until we have an abundance of simulations, but only one reality. So what's the chance that we're living in reality. Really small. This is the simulation argument. 

The people who created this simulation. A version of us. Once we get the processing power, we'll become posthuman. We'll have the ability to create an ancestor simulation. 

## Does it matter?
I think this is the most important question. If we're living in a simulation, should we care? There are a lot of different answers to this question, and it all depends on personal opinion. Some say we should change how we live our lives to try to please the person who created our simulation. We should try to act morally so that our creator will upload us into an afterlife which he could very well build, or into his reality. This is one interpretation of the simulation argument.

The next interpretation comes from the founder of the argument, Nick Bostrom. Asked the question of whether it matters if he's living in a simulation, he responded no, not really. If it feels real, appears real, and functions as if it were real 99.9% of the time, should we care that it isn't? If we don't have the power to escape the Matrix, which we assume, should we really bother ourselves with trying to change how we live? 

Lastly, we get Elon Musk. He says look, either we're in a simulation, or civilization will cease to exist. He assumes that we can create consciousness and that if we have the technology to build a simulation, we'll build it, which are very reasonable beliefs. If this is the case, then either we build simulations and realize we're most likely in one, or we'll wipe ourselves out. In this case, maybe we should hope we're living in the Matrix. Maybe we should be proud of humanity and any advanced civilizations out there. We've leveled up. We've done it. And I think that's an amazing side of the simulation argument.

Thank you.
