# The Simulation Argument (Write-up)
Is this real life? Is this reality? Now you might be thinking, what kind of question is this. This is ridiculous! Well, Elon Musk doesn't think this is ridiculous. Tech billionaire entrepreneur, founder of Tesla, creator of the hyperloop, the man who's going to colonize Mars, Elon Musk believes that the probability that this is base reality is one in billions. Why? Because he believes in the Simulation Argument.

This is Nick Bostrom, the creator of the Simulation Argument. He's a Swedish philosopher, researcher of human super-intelligence, and in his paper written 15 years ago detailing the Simulation Argument, Bostrom argues that there is a good chance we're living in a computer simulation, due to his research studying the future of human intelligence and technology. His ideas have gained a lot of steam since then, being accepted by theoretical physicists such as Neil de Grasse Tyson and futurists such as Elon Musk, and fueling a new field in digital physics. This theory has caused such massive shockwaves that tech billionaires, convinced we're living in a simulation, are currently funding scientists to help break us out of it. This is insane, like a video game. This is the purpose of my TED Talk, to explain why intelligent, future thinkers believe we're living in a computer simulation, and to let you better answer the question of whether this is real life.

## Context
To begin, we have to go back, all the way to the 1600s with Rene Descartes, the father of western philosophy. He said, I can't know if the world I'm living in is real because my perception of reality is based on my senses, and how often do they deceive me. When I go to bed, my dreams feel real, and only when I wake up do I realize that they weren't. If this is possible, how do I know if some deceitful demon is just playing tricks on my brain, and that what I perceive to be reality is just an illusion. This idea has been modernized with the Brain in the Vat thought experiment which builds upon Descartes ideas and says this: "hey, what we perceive to be reality is what our senses tell us (sight, smell, touch, hearing, taste), and what that is is just electrical signals to the brain. If this is the case, how do we know that our brain isn't in a jar somewhere with an evil scientist stimulating our brain to mimic sensory input, making us perceive a world completely different from the real-world?"

Then we got the Matrix, which is basically the Brain in the Vat theory on steroids. This movie is about a world where humanity is enslaved by artificial intelligence as an energy source, and that to control us artificial intelligence wires us up into the Matrix, a simulated reality. These ideas all provided a good backbone to why futurists and physicists today believe we're living in a simulation, but what's really driven them to have this belief is science. You see, these thought experiments provide the possibility of living in a simulation, but they don't provide any evidence that we are living in a simulation. Collecting data from our universe and using the scientific method, we've discovered major problems in nature and physics, which has made many scientists turn to supporting the Simulation Argument. So what are the problems?

## Problems
1. The Big Bang is the accepted theory of the creation of our universe. Before the Big Bang, there was nothing. From the Big Bang came something, our universe, from an explosion of matter. But the law of conservation of mass/energy says that matter can't be created nor destroyed, it can only be transferred. This doesn't make any sense, and when you try researching this question online, you get massive forums debating this topic, and you end up becoming more confused than when you came into the topic. But when thinking about the world in terms of a virtual construct, this makes perfect sense. Before a computer boots up, there is no space nor time, but afterwards all of that is created when the computer starts up. Each time you turn on a computer it goes through a digital Big Bang. From nothing comes something.
2. The next problem comes with the idea of a speed limit. Nothing in nature can go faster than the speed of light. We've gotten close, with small particles called neutrinos, but we can't pass it. I talked to my physics teacher about this and he told me that theoretically it should be possible, but that when we start to approach the speed of light everything becomes fuzzy and black holes start appearing and time travel is now possible. There is no arbitrary size limit to how large something can get, so why is there an arbitrary speed limit? It just doesn't make sense when believing that this world is a physical construct. But when we approach the speed limit with the belief that this is a virtual world, it makes a whole lot of sense. A computer processor can only be so big, it's finite. So it makes sense that there would be a cap on how fast an object could move. It's to limit the processing requirements for the simulation.
3. Next we have the Observer Effect, perhaps the most mind-blowing of the problems in modern physics. It's best explained by a thought experiment done by Erwin Schrodinger. He says imagine we have a cat and we put it inside a box with a bomb that has a 50% chance to go off and kill the cat, and a 50% chance to do nothing. We wait an hour and touch the lid of the box. We'd expect that before opening the box that the cat is either dead or alive, those two possibilities. But according to quantum mechanics, the cat isn't either or, it's actually both dead and alive at the same time. This fundamentally disturbed Schrodinger so much that he quit studying quantum physics and became a biologist. In the quantum realm, when you look at a subatomic elemnt such as an electron, it appears as a particle, but when you're not looking at it, it appears as a wave. Basically, just looking at something/observing it, can change what an object looks like and behaves like at the quantum realm. Because everything in our universe is created from subatomic particles, we can change our reality and the world by just looking at something. This goes against everything when holding the belief that the world is a physical reality. But when we hold the belief that the world is a virtual one, it makes 100% sense. In a computer simulated environment, not everything is rendered at once, only the things which are observed are rendered. When we switch what we're looking at, the things that previously weren't visible become visible to make us believe that the simulated world is real. In reality, the environment in a computer simulation is in two states at all times, and only when we are observing something does our reality change. 
4. Now you might be thinking, sure all of this theory is great, but I want some hard evidence that we're living in a simulation. Well James Gates, theoretical physicist and researcher on string theory has found computer code, strings of 1's and 0's, hidden inside equations representing string theory. Deep into quantum theory, we see evidence that bits of 1's and 0's are the backbone of everything. Now ask me to explain string theory, I have no idea what it is, so I can't exactly elaborate on this man's work, but it does support the theory that the world is a simulation.

So we've covered four major problems in physics that point to the view that we're living in a computer simulation. There is one quantum physics concept that I didn't mention called nonlocality, which Einstein spent thirty years of his life trying to make it agree with the belief that this is a real world, yet couldn't do. I'm not going to explain it, mostly because I don't really understand it (indepth physics is not my strong suit), but also because I believe that you guys kind of understand the point that there is doubt into whether this is reality. Now you guys are probably thinking, "hey rich, this is all great, but if we're living in a computer simulation, who created it and how?". Great questions.

## How did we get here?
The people who created the simulation is us. But not us right now, but a future version of ourselves, called the post-humans. The argument goes that 40 years ago, we had Pong, which was two lines and a dot, but now we have photo-realistic VR with millions of people playing with each other simultaneously. The processor used in our phone is more powerful than the computer processor used to land a moon on the moon. Our computer processing power is exponentially getting better, doubling every 18 or so months according to Moore's Law, and doesn't look like it will stop anytime soon. If this is the case, some estimate that we'll have a computer powerful enough to simulate every brain on Earth in 50 years. But even if this process takes 5 million years, we're heading on the path to creating this super computer. And once we have this computer, let's say 1,000 years from now, it's a belief that people will create "ancestor simulations", a simulation of their past history, for a variety of reasons. One could be to see how their world would have changed if a certain event ended up differently, such as if the Nazis won World War II. Another reason could be to create art; as literature's purpose is to figuratively transport us into another world, creating virtual worlds could literally allow us to visit other worlds. For whatever the reason, the argument goes that once we gain this processing power, we'll finally become "post-human", and we'll build the ancestor simulation. The people inside the ancestor civilization, after their technology progresses, will be able to create a simulation of their own, and the recursive cycle will continue. While their is only one reality, their could be many many layers of simulations. If this is the case, who's to say someone didn't beat us to it and we're just living in their computer simulation? This is the simulation argument. 

## Caveats
But I know what you guys are thinking, hey I see a bunch of loopholes in that argument. And I'll address those. Because it's not a guarantee that we're living in a simulation. There are three caveats.

1. We can't simulate consciousness. The simulation argument assumes that we can create consciousness, which is generally assumed to be possible by the philosophical and psychological community. Why? Because what is this? What's consciousness? It's an awareness of ourselves, to be able to think about ourselves. And while some people have posited that consciousness comes from a soul, and is given to us by God, most people today see consciousness as just a dynamic process with 86 billion neurons. There is no reason that this process couldn't be simulated if the computer program is detailed enough, they argue. It shouldn't matter if a brain is organic or made from a silicon computer chip, the physical construction should be irrelevant. There are some who don't believe that we could simulate consciousness, so we should take this into mind.
2. The next caveat is that there's an "Event". Think apocalypse, such as from nuclear war or global warming, or the development of technology so powerful that it wipes out all of us (such as artificial intelligence). If every advanced technological species ends up destroying itself before it has the processing power to create a simulation, then we're not living in a computer simulation.
3. The last caveat is that we don't end up wiping ourselves out and we have the processing power to create an ancestor simulation, but we choose not to. There are a variety of reasons why this would be the case. While the world would be virtual, the people inside of it would still be able to experience tremendous pain. The world isn't all sunshines and rainbows. These posthumans may decide not to build ancestor simulations because of ethical reasons. They might not build ancestor simulations too because they might find it a waste of time.

## How to test this?
Testing this theory, like any other theoretical physics theory, is pretty difficult. We could know if we're living inside a computer simulation if a pop-up appears in our view saying "HEY, YOU'RE LIVING IN A SIMULATION". We could also conduct studies and see whether new technologies have an existential risk on our survival, and thus conclude whether or not it's likely that most advanced species wipe themselves out. 

## Does it matter?
I think the more important question is whether it matters or not if we're living in a simulation. Some people say that we should live in the moment, others say we should act morally so that we please our simulators and they upload us into their reality or an afterlife. Others say that it doesn't matter if we're living in a simulation or not, because this would still be part of reality, just a miniature aspect of it. 

I personally think we have a lot to learn from the simulation argument, because it humbles and makes us question whether what we believe to be true is true. People used to believe that the world was flat, so they didn't explore too far in fear that they would fall off the edge of the world. Then old philosophers used to believe that Earth was in the center of our solar system, but they were dead wrong. It's a good thing I'd argue, making us realize that science can't make us certain about the world, just less wrong. But I think the person responsible for this answer should be you. What do you think? Is this real life? And if so, should it matter? Thank you. 


We created the simulation. But not us. A version of us, smarter and with computing power we don't currently have. They're called post-humans, and these are the architects of computer simulations. And what the argument says is, look, our processing power is doubling every 18 monts, so we'll have a computer powerful enough soon to render everything. Once that event happens, we'll be technologically mature, and become "post-humans". If we can do this, then we would finally be a technologically mature species, and we'd have the processing power to be almost exact in our simulation (sometimes we'd compress people, when things aren't looking such as in the observer effect, but we could fool the people inside). Detailed enough would create the process of consciousness, people aware of themselves. 

## Conclusion
I'd like to say, I've done a lot of research read a lot of articles, but honestly, I'm probably wrong about many of the ideas I presented. I'm really not a physics person, I just like crazy ideas and theories, so I want everyone to take what I say with skepticism and do research on your own if you're interested in this.


This is the reason for my presentation, to explain why. 

Researching further, I found the origin of Elon's belief. This is Swedish philosopher, Nick Bostrom, researcher on human super-intelligence and a believer that there's a good chance that our reality is a virtual construct. He created the Simulation Argument, a 15 year-old idea which has recently gained steam and challenged people's views on reality. His belief, as well as from Elon and theoretical physicists all over the world, 